README.md, before:

# platform-bible-extension-verse-image-generator

Platform.Bible Extension - Generates images based on current verse or other prompt. For OCE Learnathon Spring 24

## Summary

The general file structure is as follows:

- `package.json` contains information about this extension's npm package. It is required for Platform.Bible to use the extension properly. It is copied into the build folder
- `manifest.json` is the manifest file that defines the extension and important properties for Platform.Bible. It is copied into the build folder
- `src/` contains the source code for the extension
  - `src/main.ts` is the main entry file for the extension
  - `src/types/verse-image-generator.d.ts` is this extension's types file that defines how other extensions can use this extension through the `papi`. It is copied into the build folder
  - `*.web-view.tsx` files will be treated as React WebViews
  - `*.web-view.html` files are a conventional way to provide HTML WebViews (no special functionality)
- `assets/` contains asset files the extension and its WebViews can retrieve using the `papi-extension:` protocol. It is copied into the build folder
- `contributions/` contains JSON files the platform uses to extend data structures for things like menus and settings. The JSON files are referenced from the manifest
- `public/` contains other static files that are copied into the build folder
- `dist/` is a generated folder containing the built extension files
- `release/` is a generated folder containing a zip of the built extension files

## To install

### Install dependencies:

1. Follow the instructions to install [`paranext-core`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-core#developer-install).
2. In this repo, run `npm install` to install local and published dependencies

### Configure paths to `paranext-core` repo

In order to interact with `paranext-core`, you must point `package.json` to your installed `paranext-core` repository:

1. Follow the instructions to install [`paranext-core`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-core#developer-install). We recommend you clone `paranext-core` in the same parent directory in which you cloned this repository so you do not have to reconfigure paths to `paranext-core`.
2. If you cloned `paranext-core` anywhere other than in the same parent directory in which you cloned this repository, update the paths to `paranext-core` in this repository's `package.json` to point to the correct `paranext-core` directory.

## To run

### Running Platform.Bible with this extension

To run Platform.Bible with this extension:

`npm start`

Note: The built extension will be in the `dist` folder. In order for Platform.Bible to run this extension, you must provide the directory to this built extension to Platform.Bible via a command-line argument. This command-line argument is already provided in this `package.json`'s `start` script. If you want to start Platform.Bible and use this extension any other way, you must provide this command-line argument or put the `dist` folder into Platform.Bible's `extensions` folder.

### Building this extension independently

To watch extension files (in `src`) for changes:

`npm run watch`

To build the extension once:

`npm run build`

## To package for distribution

To package this extension into a zip file for distribution:

`npm run package`

## To update this extension from the template

This extension project is forked from [`paranext-extension-template`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-extension-template), which is updated periodically and will sometimes receive updates that help with breaking changes on [`paranext-core`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-core). We recommend you periodically update your extension by merging the latest template updates into your extension.

To set up this extension to be updated from the template, run the following command once after cloning this repo:

```bash
git remote add template https://github.com/paranext/paranext-extension-template
```

To update this extension from the template, make sure your repo has no working changes. Then run the following commands:

```bash
git fetch template
git merge template/main --allow-unrelated-histories
```

For more information, read [the instructions on the wiki](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-extension-template/wiki/Merging-Template-Changes-into-Your-Extension).

**Note:** The merge/squash commits created when updating this repo from the template are important; Git uses them to compare the files for future updates. If you edit this repo's Git history, please preserve these commits (do not squash them, for example) to avoid duplicated merge conflicts in the future.

## Special features in this project

This project has special features and specific configuration to make building an extension for Platform.Bible easier. See [Special features of `paranext-multi-extension-template`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-multi-extension-template#special-features-of-the-template) for information on these special features.

Commit message:

Added svg.io, disclaimer, presentation links, etc

README.md, after:

# platform-bible-extension-verse-image-generator

Platform.Bible Extension - Generates images based on current verse or other prompt. For OCE Learn-a-thon Spring 24

## Presentation Links

- [OCE Learn-a-thon Spring 2024 Platform.Bible Extensions presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1L33hHibMWbmm5_IlfD6HBYjUCnkDr-DyYVqKIoPO248)
- [Links to resources for creating extensions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KBvnmwTxaO5h4Rq8PV82v2GELNslyVKCbFJ1-FV3TVQ/edit#heading=h.lp1j2x84y1qd)
- [Walkthrough for creating this extension](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U2UN-VqEkLtyCYozoXYp98ZlpzvEM0rgsCtU19YxICI)

## Summary

The general file structure is as follows:

- `package.json` contains information about this extension's npm package. It is required for Platform.Bible to use the extension properly. It is copied into the build folder
- `manifest.json` is the manifest file that defines the extension and important properties for Platform.Bible. It is copied into the build folder
- `src/` contains the source code for the extension
  - `src/main.ts` is the main entry file for the extension
  - `src/types/verse-image-generator.d.ts` is this extension's types file that defines how other extensions can use this extension through the `papi`. It is copied into the build folder
  - `*.web-view.tsx` files will be treated as React WebViews
  - `*.web-view.html` files are a conventional way to provide HTML WebViews (no special functionality)
- `assets/` contains asset files the extension and its WebViews can retrieve using the `papi-extension:` protocol. It is copied into the build folder
- `contributions/` contains JSON files the platform uses to extend data structures for things like menus and settings. The JSON files are referenced from the manifest
- `public/` contains other static files that are copied into the build folder
- `dist/` is a generated folder containing the built extension files
- `release/` is a generated folder containing a zip of the built extension files

## To install

### Install dependencies:

1. Follow the instructions to install [`paranext-core`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-core#developer-install).
2. In this repo, run `npm install` to install local and published dependencies

### Configure paths to `paranext-core` repo

In order to interact with `paranext-core`, you must point `package.json` to your installed `paranext-core` repository:

1. Follow the instructions to install [`paranext-core`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-core#developer-install). We recommend you clone `paranext-core` in the same parent directory in which you cloned this repository so you do not have to reconfigure paths to `paranext-core`.
2. If you cloned `paranext-core` anywhere other than in the same parent directory in which you cloned this repository, update the paths to `paranext-core` in this repository's `package.json` to point to the correct `paranext-core` directory.

## To run

### Running Platform.Bible with this extension

To run Platform.Bible with this extension:

`npm start`

Note: The built extension will be in the `dist` folder. In order for Platform.Bible to run this extension, you must provide the directory to this built extension to Platform.Bible via a command-line argument. This command-line argument is already provided in this `package.json`'s `start` script. If you want to start Platform.Bible and use this extension any other way, you must provide this command-line argument or put the `dist` folder into Platform.Bible's `extensions` folder.

### Building this extension independently

To watch extension files (in `src`) for changes:

`npm run watch`

To build the extension once:

`npm run build`

## To package for distribution

To package this extension into a zip file for distribution:

`npm run package`

## To update this extension from the template

This extension project is forked from [`paranext-extension-template`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-extension-template), which is updated periodically and will sometimes receive updates that help with breaking changes on [`paranext-core`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-core). We recommend you periodically update your extension by merging the latest template updates into your extension.

To set up this extension to be updated from the template, run the following command once after cloning this repo:

```bash
git remote add template https://github.com/paranext/paranext-extension-template
```

To update this extension from the template, make sure your repo has no working changes. Then run the following commands:

```bash
git fetch template
git merge template/main --allow-unrelated-histories
```

For more information, read [the instructions on the wiki](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-extension-template/wiki/Merging-Template-Changes-into-Your-Extension).

**Note:** The merge/squash commits created when updating this repo from the template are important; Git uses them to compare the files for future updates. If you edit this repo's Git history, please preserve these commits (do not squash them, for example) to avoid duplicated merge conflicts in the future.

## Special features in this project

This project has special features and specific configuration to make building an extension for Platform.Bible easier. See [Special features of `paranext-multi-extension-template`](https://github.com/paranext/paranext-multi-extension-template#special-features-of-the-template) for information on these special features.
